>> Steve Kinney: So we have a new way of
fetching data in modern browsers, and
it's called fetch, right?
So we don't have to actually mention XML
anymore, and it's a new way of handling
network requests, and
it's actually really interesting.
You'll be like, is this some
fancy API over XML HTTP requests?
It's actually not, it's actually
lower level in a lot of ways,
and in browsers that support fetch,
XHR send actually uses fetch now.
So it's like an inverted
obsolescence thing, right?
Now XHR actually is an abstraction
over fetch, but fetch,
first thing we might notice, one, I
didn't have to put nine different events,
open stuff and
send it in some weird order.
It has a promised based API,
which is pretty cool,
we're gonna talk about that middle
line in there in a second, but
it looks a lot like that dollar sign,
ajax or dollar sign get json, right?
That case we wouldn't have that center
line with the then response json,
I will talk about that we're just
gonna hand over for a second.
But then we get the result and
we can do stuff with it, and
that's really all we wanted to
do with it is stuff, right?
It's supported in almost
all the major browsers and
can be polyfilled in
the ones that are not.
A polyfill is basically checks to
see if there's a fetch, if not,
writes it in JavaScript so
guess what you have now?
Fetch, and it's also Node.js friendly,
XMLHttpRequest doesn't exist a node,
and as my kind of eluded to earlier,
doesn't exist in workers, right?
And a thing that we're gonna
use today is workers, so
this is a way to send ajax request or
send network request at this point,
from any of our workers and we can
use it in the browser as well, cool.
>> Steve Kinney: Also,
if you wanna think about the future,
there is a syntax in JavaScript now
called async await that I kind of briefly
mentioned when we talked about promises.
What async await does is you just
say async before a function, and
then anything that would return a promise,
you prefix with the await keyword.
And what will happen is normally functions
run to completion in JavaScript which
means, once you start a function, you're
going until you either, A, return, B,
throwing error, or C,
hit the end of the function.
This uses generators so you can pause
a function come back to it later, so,
in this case we look at this
get data async function.
All that makes this async functions
putting the word async before it,
boom, you're using async functions now.
We will try it cuz there is the issue that
the network could come back poorly and
we do need to handle that error.
But where it says const response, what
we're gonna do is we will go ahead and
make the network request.
As we said before we don't know when
it's coming back if it's coming back so
we'll put this function on pause for
a second and we'll wait.
When we hear back from the network,
we'll pick back up where we dropped off,
and you can see that it has a very
synchronous looking model to it.
It goes line by line, there's none of
this callbacks, or promise chaining, or
anything along those lines one by one.
Under the hood it is promises, but
you can pretend that you don't
know about promises anymore.
Which now you're all yeah,
just learned about promises, it's fine.
So it looks like Ajax, and
it's got some subtle differences right?
One dollar sign Ajax or any of
the other XHR based ways of doing that
will reject the promise,
if you get a 400 or a 500 error,
which is, we got to the server and
the server said go away, all right?
Or the server like blew up and
like nothing happened, we'll say,
reject the promise, it didn't work out,
fetch won't do that.
You can check to see if everything okay,
if you got told by the server 400, 404,
500, whatever, you can find that out, but
we're still gonna count that as success.
We got to the server and
we made it back alive, success, right?
So it'll only reject on a network failure,
again we're in a workshop
about building offline apps.
Seems like this is annoying that it
doesn't reject on a network request that
was successful with the answer you
didn't like, but that is for us,
qualitatively different than one
that didn't make it there at all,
in how we handle these things.
And by default Fetch does not send or
receive your cookies,
and we'll kind of talk
a little about that later.
So, Fetch can do a few more things though,
one, it can get more than just XML and
JSON, we can also get all
sorts of other data types,
we can get images,
we can get other script files.
We can get videos,
stuff along those lines, right?
Things that we, especially if you wanted
to pull a script you might try something
like Json p or something along those lines
which is like a clever hack to try to pull
this off, fetch is like no this can just
be like a thing we can handle it and
you can do it for real.
Basically anything that you would put
into like an image source attribute or
script source, or anything along
those lines you can also fetch and
put into those tags as well and
we'll see how that works.
All right the three major things
that you need to know, one,
how the actual fetch method works.
Fetch it's both the method that
you can call fetch parentheses,
as well as the fetch API.
One has like a capital F,
one has a lowercase f with
some parentheses next to it.
It's okay to think of them at the same
thing but let's actually talk about
the syntax as well as
the conceptual framework around it.
Two is we'll talk a little bit about
configuring request objects and
then working with the response
objects that we get back.
In a normal XHR HTTP request, you
would've gotten back the JSON, the XML,
really what you would have gotten was
a string that you would've turned in
to JSON or XML, right?
This way we're actually going to get
a full object that is all the parts of
the response, what are the headers,
so on and so forth.